Creating-a-TAF-analysis.md, before:

This page was based on using the `icesTAF` package version `3.0.0` dated
`2019-04-25`.

In this guide
-------------

-   [Clone](#clone)
-   [Make Skeleton](#make-skeleton)
-   [Upload initial data](#upload-initial-data)
    -   [Upload files](#upload-files)
    -   [Make data available](#make-data-available-to-assessment)

Clone
-----

The first step is asking the ICES secratariate to create a repository
for your stock. In this example we will work with North Sea cod:
cod.27.47d20 in 2019 - the repository name for the assessment will be
cod.27.47d20. When a new repository is created on GitHub you should
clone the repository to your own computer. From here we will assume you
have cloned the

Make skeleton
-------------

The first step in creating a TAF analysis is to set out the basic folder
and file structure of the project. This is done using the function
[`taf.skeleton`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.skeleton.html).
which creates the following structure in your working directory

     cod.27.47d20    
      ¦--bootstrap   
      ¦   °--initial 
      ¦       °--data
      ¦--data.R      
      ¦--model.R     
      ¦--output.R    
      °--report.R    

Upload initial data
-------------------

The next step is to set up the data requirements for your assessment.
There are three ways to get data into an assessment. 1. upload files
directly, 2. get a file from the web, and 3. use some Rcode to access a
webservice. We will cover 1. and 2. here.

### Upload files

To upload a file called `catch.csv` - the contents might be something
like:

    year, catches
    2015, 2109
    2016, 3455
    2017, 3466
    2018, 2050

simply copy the file in to the `bootstrap/initial/data` folder. The
directory structure will now look like this:

     cod.27.47d20             
      ¦--bootstrap            
      ¦   °--initial          
      ¦       °--data         
      ¦           °--catch.csv
      ¦--data.R               
      ¦--model.R              
      ¦--output.R             
      °--report.R             

### Make data available to assessment

So far we have uploaded data into the intial data folder, but to make it
available to the assessment it needs to be in the `bootstrap/data`
folder, and the only way to do this is to create a file referenceing the
data and then run the function
[`taf.bootstrap`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.bootstrap.html).
To reference the data we create a file called `DATA.bib` using the
helper function
[`draft.data`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/draft.data.html), and
add a few fields:

    draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
               title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
               period = "2015-2018")

    ## @Misc{catch.csv,
    ##   originator = {WGNSSK},
    ##   year       = {2019},
    ##   title      = {Catch data for cod.27.347d},
    ##   period     = {2015-2018},
    ##   source     = {file},
    ## }

Then we write this to the `DATA.bib` file by specifying the `file`
argument:

    draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
               title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
               period = "2015-2018",
               file = "bootstrap/DATA.bib")

Finally we run `taf.bootstrap()` to get the data into the
`bootstrap/data` folder, leaving the directory tree looking like this:

     cod.27.47d20             
      ¦--bootstrap            
      ¦   ¦--DATA.bib         
      ¦   ¦--data             
      ¦   ¦   °--catch.csv    
      ¦   °--initial          
      ¦       °--data         
      ¦           °--catch.csv
      ¦--data.R               
      ¦--model.R              
      ¦--output.R             
      °--report.R

Commit message:

add some text on TAF scripts

Creating-a-TAF-analysis.md, after:

This page was based on using the `icesTAF` package version `3.1.1` dated
`2019-05-24`.

In this guide
-------------

-   [Clone](#clone)
-   [Make Skeleton](#make-skeleton)
-   [Upload initial data](#upload-initial-data)
    -   [Upload files](#upload-files)
    -   [Make data available](#make-data-available-to-assessment)

Clone
-----

The first step is asking the ICES secratariate to create a repository
for your stock. In this example we will work with North Sea cod:
cod.27.47d20 in 2019 - the repository name for the assessment will be
cod.27.47d20. When a new repository is created on GitHub you should
clone the repository to your own computer. From here we will assume you
have cloned the

Make skeleton
-------------

The first step in creating a TAF analysis is to set out the basic folder
and file structure of the project. This is done using the function
[`taf.skeleton`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.skeleton.html).
which creates the following structure in your working directory

     cod.27.47d20    
      ¦--bootstrap   
      ¦   °--initial 
      ¦       °--data
      ¦--data.R      
      ¦--model.R     
      ¦--output.R    
      °--report.R    

Upload initial data
-------------------

The next step is to set up the data requirements for your assessment.
There are three ways to get data into an assessment. 1. upload files
directly, 2. get a file from the web, and 3. use some Rcode to access a
webservice. We will cover 1. and 2. here.

### Upload files

To upload a file called `catch.csv` - the contents might be something
like:

    year, catches
    2015, 2109
    2016, 3455
    2017, 3466
    2018, 2050

simply copy the file in to the `bootstrap/initial/data` folder. The
directory structure will now look like this:

     cod.27.47d20             
      ¦--bootstrap            
      ¦   °--initial          
      ¦       °--data         
      ¦           °--catch.csv
      ¦--data.R               
      ¦--model.R              
      ¦--output.R             
      °--report.R             

### Make data available to assessment

So far we have uploaded data into the intial data folder, but to make it
available to the assessment it needs to be in the `bootstrap/data`
folder, and the only way to do this is to create a file referenceing the
data and then run the function
[`taf.bootstrap`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.bootstrap.html).
To reference the data we create a file called `DATA.bib` using the
helper function
[`draft.data`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/draft.data.html), and
add a few fields:

    draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
               title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
               period = "2015-2018")

    ## @Misc{catch.csv,
    ##   originator = {WGNSSK},
    ##   year       = {2019},
    ##   title      = {Catch data for cod.27.347d},
    ##   period     = {2015-2018},
    ##   source     = {file},
    ## }

Then we write this to the `DATA.bib` file by specifying the `file`
argument:

    draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
               title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
               period = "2015-2018",
               file = "bootstrap/DATA.bib")

Finally we run `taf.bootstrap()` to get the data into the
`bootstrap/data` folder, leaving the directory tree looking like this:

     cod.27.47d20             
      ¦--bootstrap            
      ¦   ¦--DATA.bib         
      ¦   ¦--data             
      ¦   ¦   °--catch.csv    
      ¦   °--initial          
      ¦       °--data         
      ¦           °--catch.csv
      ¦--data.R               
      ¦--model.R              
      ¦--output.R             
      °--report.R             

Preprocess data, write TAF data tables
--------------------------------------

Now that you have created the file structure and uploaded your data, its
time to turn your attention to the `data.R` script. The purpose of this
script is to do some data processing. This could be (among other
things):

-   calculating plus groups,
-   taking averages of survey indices,
-   calculating fillin values and removing outliers,
-   calculating smoothed time series’

The `data.R` script should also write out input data into flat csv
files, so they are readable and reviewable by others.

### Preprocessing

### Writing TAF tables
