
This page was based on using the `icesTAF` package version `3.1.1` dated
`2019-05-24`.

## In this guide

  - [Clone](#clone)
  - [Make Skeleton](#make-skeleton)
  - [Upload initial data](#upload-initial-data)
      - [Upload files](#upload-files)
      - [Make data available](#make-data-available-to-assessment)

## Clone

The first step is asking the ICES secratariate to create a repository
for your stock. In this example we will work with North Sea cod:
cod.27.47d20 in 2019 - the repository name for the assessment will be
cod.27.47d20. When a new repository is created on GitHub you should
clone the repository to your own computer. From here we will assume you
have cloned the

## Make skeleton

The first step in creating a TAF analysis is to set out the basic folder
and file structure of the project. This is done using the function
[`taf.skeleton`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.skeleton.html).
which creates the following structure in your working directory

``` r
 cod.27.47d20    
  ¦--bootstrap   
  ¦   °--initial 
  ¦       °--data
  ¦--data.R      
  ¦--model.R     
  ¦--output.R    
  °--report.R    
```

## Upload initial data

The next step is to set up the data requirements for your assessment.
There are three ways to get data into an assessment. 1. upload files
directly, 2. get a file from the web, and 3. use some Rcode to access a
webservice. We will cover 1. and 2. here. See
<https://github.com/ices-taf/doc/wiki/Example-data-records> for more
information.

### Upload files

To upload a file called `catch.csv` - the contents might be something
like:

    year, catches
    2015, 2109
    2016, 3455
    2017, 3466
    2018, 2050

simply copy the file in to the `bootstrap/initial/data` folder. The
directory structure will now look like this:

``` r
 cod.27.47d20             
  ¦--bootstrap            
  ¦   °--initial          
  ¦       °--data         
  ¦           °--catch.csv
  ¦--data.R               
  ¦--model.R              
  ¦--output.R             
  °--report.R             
```

### Make data available to assessment

So far we have uploaded data into the intial data folder, but to make it
available to the assessment it needs to be in the `bootstrap/data`
folder, and the only way to do this is to create a file referenceing the
data and then run the function
[`taf.bootstrap`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/taf.bootstrap.html).
To reference the data we create a file called `DATA.bib` using the
helper function
[`draft.data`](https://rdrr.io/cran/icesTAF/man/draft.data.html), and
add a few fields:

``` r
draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
           title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
           period = "2015-2018")
```

    ## @Misc{catch.csv,
    ##   originator = {WGNSSK},
    ##   year       = {2019},
    ##   title      = {Catch data for cod.27.347d},
    ##   period     = {2015-2018},
    ##   source     = {file},
    ## }

Then we write this to the `DATA.bib` file by specifying the `file`
argument:

``` r
draft.data(originator = "WGNSSK", 
           title = "Catch data for cod.27.347d", 
           period = "2015-2018",
           file = "bootstrap/DATA.bib")
```

Finally we run `taf.bootstrap()` to get the data into the
`bootstrap/data` folder, leaving the directory tree looking like this:

``` r
 cod.27.47d20             
  ¦--bootstrap            
  ¦   ¦--DATA.bib         
  ¦   ¦--data             
  ¦   ¦   °--catch.csv    
  ¦   °--initial          
  ¦       °--data         
  ¦           °--catch.csv
  ¦--data.R               
  ¦--model.R              
  ¦--output.R             
  °--report.R             
```

## Preprocess data, write TAF data tables

Now that you have created the file structure and uploaded your data, its
time to turn your attention to the `data.R` script. The purpose of this
script is to do some data processing. This could be (among other
things):

  - calculating plus groups,
  - taking averages of survey indices,
  - calculating fillin values and removing outliers,
  - calculating smoothed time series’

The `data.R` script should also write out input data into flat csv
files, so they are readable and reviewable by others.

### Preprocessing

### Writing TAF tables
